Thank you so much for taking the time to read and critique my paper. The comments are invaluable and I have endeavoured to address them all in full. To start with the third review (which seems to present the most fundamental and comprehensive questions), 

Major comments
I take your point that this is not a conventional event study. However, I would argue that one of the interesting aspect of the paper is the extension of the event study method to cases where the event window surrounds other types of information.  In this case that information is the extreme levels of speculative sentiment and extreme short or long positions held by speculativce accounts.  I would like to know what happens at these extremes because of the contrast between a view of speculation that regards it as uninformed and disruptive and that which asserts that speculation is informed and part of the process of price discovery.  If speculation is uninformed when speculative sentiment or speculative positions are extemely bias to one direction, there should be the greatest divergence from fundamental value and therefore the greatest risk of reversal; if speculation is informed these extremes are part of the adjustment to a new equilibrium.  I have added some comments to the section that discusses the event study method in an attempt to reinforce this point. 

I do not think that risk-reversals are random but reflect changes in market expectations.  However, I realise that I have not made the case effectively.  Figures 1 and 2 highlight the common finding of comovement between risk-reversals and asset prices. I have identified this explicitly and also added a section that discusses the use of options to uncover market expectations. This includes some references to the literature on the extraction of market expectations from options as well as previus uses of risk-revresals as measures of market sentiment. I hope that I have thereby more effectively established a link between risk-reversals and speculative sentiment. 

More generally, I realise that I have glossed over some of steps that have been taken and some of the necessary explanations.  I have added some additional commentary. See for example additons...

To address the other points:

1. I have added some more contemporary discussion of the nature of speculation.  This is sometimes made in the context of noise-traders and has been part of the debate over the costs and benefits of a transaction tax as well as the influence of speculation on things like commodities prices. See

2. I have tried to make this explicit in addition number 1. 

3. I have added an explanation (addition number 2) and I have addressed this in other parts of the documednt. 

4."Extremes" refers to either speculative sentiment or speculative positins (addition number 3). This is one of the clarification cases that I refer to in point 3 above. 

5. I have added some references to the price discovery literatre that makes the link between order flow and the movement of asset prices towards equilibrium. This is part of addition 2. 

6. There is a discussion of the use of option to generate market expectations in the addition ...).  The sentiment and positins are separate series.  I hope that I have made this more evident with the changes discussed in point 3 above. 

7 The risk-reversal is a combined put and call.  This is explained in footnote 3. 

8. The risk-reversals have one month maturity.  This is now explicit (addition 4). 

9. I am afraid that I do not understand this point.  The footnote explains the relatinship between risk-reversal and the regular call and put options. I can take it out if necessary but I think that it is necessary to address your point 7 above. I also do not see the importance of the delta.  The relationship between the change in the exchange rate and the change in the optio price (delta) is equalised for calls and puts. It is standard to use the 25 delta for each.  

10. To be addressed.

11. The "positions" are the second series that are taken from the Commodoties Futures Trading Commission.  These are actual positions in the futures market from which a net-long or net-short measure is calculation.  The details of this are explained in addition x.  The discussion of this second series has been expanded significantly and I hope that this makes things clear. 

12.  I have addressed some of the limitations and I have moved the taxation issue to.....  I have added some questions for future research. 



Second Review 
Initial general comments
I have expand the paper from a "shortended summary" by adding additional explanation and clarification. 

Points
The motivation for the study is to investigate whether speculative in beneficial in terms of facilitating the movement of prices towards equilibrium and reducing volatility or damaging through its pressure to diverge from equilibrium and increasing speculation.  In the first case extreme speculation (whether measured by speculative sentiment or speculative positions) should not be followed by any particular movement; in the lateter prices should have a clear direction (reversal) after the extreme has been recorded.  I have added this to the paragraph in order to make this explicit.  

The foreign exchange market is chosen because the available risk-reversal data are from this market.  However, it is widely believed that this is a particularly speculative market as the decentralised dealer marketi, high liquiity and low dealing cost encourages short-term activity. In addition, the call for a tranaction tax has tended to focus on this market.  I have added some references and comments that I hope support this asertion. As noted in point x above, I have added a section on microstructure highlighting the link between order flow and price. In this section I have also tried to address the point that you make about liquidity trading. 

You are certainly right about my presentation of the data.  I have added more about this.

I have added to the discussion of the event study method so that it is more apparent to people outside the field and I have discussed some of teh limitations.  

I do take your point about statistical significance.  The results would be the same whether the 1 percent or 10 percent threshold were applied.  As you say, with a 5 percent cut off some results will be significant even if the movement of exchange rates after speculative extremes is random - this is what we find, reinforcing the point that there is no particular pattern after these extremes.  I have tried to clarify and explain this point. 

I have made changes to the conclusions that I hope address some of the concerns that you have. 

I don't think that there are any issues to address for the first reviewer. 

I hope that I have satisfied many of your concerns.  I am very happy to addrsss any additional issues that you have. 

Regards, 

Dr. Rob Hayward
